1.4 Tools for Full Stack Developers

For web application development, you need the right tools to make your work easier. Without the right tools, development would be a lot more time consuming. Throughout this book, I'll provide tips in this regard. At this point, however, I want to introduce you to the basic tools you absolutely need for development:

Editors: Even if a simple text editor is basically sufficient for developing web applications or implementing the associated source code, I recommend you install a good editor that supports you in writing source code and that is specifically designed for development. Code editors can, for example, highlight the source code in colors (syntax highlighting), relieve you of typing with recurring source code modules, recognize syntax errors in your source code, and much more.
Development environments: Simply put, these powerful code editors provide common features like syntax highlighting but also advanced features such as integrated debugging tools, version control, and so on.
Browsers: Of course, a browser is required for testing web applications. In particular, the developer tools available in most browsers have become indispensable parts of a web developer's toolbox.

1.4.1 Editors
Meanwhile, a whole range of good code editors are available for the development of web applications. Particularly popular are Sublime Text (www.sublimetext.com); Atom (https://atom.io); and Brackets (https://brackets.io). All of these editors are available for Linux, Windows, and macOS. Basically, the editors I've mentioned are quite similar, so which you adopt depends mainly on your personal tastes. Try out several to find which one appeals to you the most.

1.4.2 Developemt Environments
More powerful than editors are development environments, often called integrated development environments (IDEs). Compared to a normal editor, development environments have special features for the development of software, such as synchronization with a version control system, the execution of automatic builds, or the integration of test frameworks. If one of these features is not installed by default, usually a corresponding plugin is available.
Well-known examples of development environments specifically for web application development include Microsoft Visual Studio Code (VS Code; htttps://code.visualstudio.com) and WebStorm by IntelliJ (www.jetbrains.com/webstorm).

1.4.3 Browsers
To display a web page or HTML document that you've created in an editor or a development environment, you'll need a web browser. An essential component of a web browser is its rendering engine, which enables you to visualize HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
The five most popular browsers are the following:
Google Chrome: https://www.google.com/chrome
Mozilla Firefox: https://www.mozilla.org/firefox
Safari: https://support.apple.com/downloads/safari
Opera: https://www.opera.com
Microsoft Edge: https://www.microsoft.com/edge
Besides these "big five" browsers, quite a few others exist. Most notable are Microsoft's (aging) Internet Explorer (the predecessor of the faster Microsoft Edge browser), which - to the chagrin of many developers - is still used by some companies today, and Brave (https://brave.com), which was initiated by Brendan Eich, the inventor of the JavaScript language. If you're interested, you can find an extensive list of other alternatives at the links to Wikipedia pages mentioned in the box.
Which Browser Is the Right One?
Which browser is the "right one," that is, which one you should use, depends on various factors:
Customer requirements
Does the customer have any special requirements? Often, you'll encounter rather specific requirements about which browsers a web application must work for. Now and then-don't panic-this requirement can involve Internet Explorer.
Features
Do certain features need to be supported? The individual browsers (or more precisely, the various rendering engines) support different features depending on their version. Especially with the abundance of web APIs now available, the individual engines will differ. For a good overview of whether a feature is supported, check out the website https://caniuse.com.
Functional scope
By now, all major browsers offer a similar range of functions. Of particular interest to developers are the developer tools, which you can use, for example, to adapt HTML and CSS or execute JavaScript for a web page that has already been rendered.